this is a hollow metal can with rubber
stopper and we filled that can with dry
ice that is solid carbon dioxide now you
know solid carbon dioxide is very cold
this white stuff is just frost that's
gathered on the outside of the can now
as the can of Sorbs heat from the room
the carbon dioxide evaporates and turns
into a gas the gas takes up more room
than the solid so it has to go somewhere
can't come out the top so it comes out a
little hole here in the bottom of the
dish now you can't see it coming out the
hole but if I make a flame I think you
can see that there's gas coming out and
blowing the flame now if we put the disc
with its stream of gas coming out the
bottom down on our table top which is
made of a very smooth piece of plate
glass we can wait a moment while the gas
coming out builds up pressure underneath
which it has to do in order to escape by
now the disc is floating on this film of
escaping gas that tome is so thin that
I'm sure you can't see it from out there
I can scarcely see that thick see a
space between the disc and the glass
myself but if you'll come and look over
my shoulder I think I can show you that
there is a space by slipping underneath
the disc this piece of tinfoil I took
off the chewing gum wrapper now will
slip the tinfoil between the disc and
the plate glass top of the table showing
that there is indeed a space a thin film
of gas between the disc and the glass
upon which at rest the
purpose of this is simply to reduce the
friction to a point where we won't have
to worry about it or measure it in our
experiments today it's fun to play with
this thing let me show you I'll give it
a little push just a little one and
there it goes
moving sedately no sign of slowing up
come on back same thing the other
direction it takes only a very tiny
force to start it in motion let me show
you that